## 
378. Kth Smallest Element in a Sorted Matrix

https://leetcode.com/problems/kth-smallest-element-in-a-sorted-matrix/

My Solution

```python
class Solution:
    def kthSmallest(self, matrix: List[List[int]], k: int) -> int:
        col = len(matrix[0])
        row = len(matrix)
        # 1. Initialize the heap
        minHeap = []
        # 2. Generate the heap with col & index
        for i in range(min(k,row)):
            minHeap.append((matrix[i][0], i, 0))
        # 3. Heapify the list
        heapq.heapify(minHeap)
        # 4. Start a loop until we have k elements
        res = []
        while len(res) < k:
            element, r, c = heapq.heappop(minHeap)
            res.append(element)
            # If we have any new elements in the current row, add
            if c + 1 < col:
                heapq.heappush(minHeap, (matrix[r][c+1], r, c+1))
        return res[-1]
```

## 思路想法
Intuitive thinking: The question give us the row and columns in sorted order. If we just have 2 sorted lists, we can use 2 pointers to compare each time. 
Then after x iterate, we can find the xth item. But in this question, we have N sorted lists instead of 2. We can't use N different pointers now.

The heap data structure is perfect for this kind of problem, the heam data structure givs us O(1) access to the minimum element and log(N) removal of the 
minimum element and addition of a new one. We just to perform this operation k times to get out Kth smallest number. It's possible that out matrix has 100 rows
whereas we just need 5th smallest element. In this case, we can safely discard the rows in the lower part of the matrix. (6th - 100th) So we need min(N,K) rows
essentially to find out the answer.

Steps:
1. Initialize a min-heap called H.

2. N represents the number of rows, and add each of these elements to the heap. It's important to know what row and colum an element belongs to. Without knowing
that, we won't be able to move forward in that list. So min-heap will contain triplet of info(value, row, column). The heap will be arranfged on the basis of the
values and we will use the row and column number to add a replacement for the next element in case it gets popped of the heap.

3. At this point, out heap contains min(N,K) elements. Now we start a loop that goes until we iterate over K elements.

4. Each step, we remove the minimim element from the heap. The element will tell us which row should be furter consumned. Using the row and column info we can
add next element to the heap. E.g current (r,c), next (r,c+1)

5. Keep iterate until we get k elements.
